07-Nov-2018 -> Happy Diwali :)
-----------

Python Notes
------------
{
  .Python name after "Monty Python’s Flying Circus" nothing to do with reptile
  
  .Python slower than c, c++
  
  .Python can be used from website development and gaming to robotics and spacecraft control
  
  .Python GUI : Python comes with a standard object-oriented interface to theTk GUI API called tkinter
  
  .The wxPython GUI API, based on a C++ library, offers an alternative toolkit for constructing portable GUIs in Python
  
  .With the proper library, you can also use GUI support in other toolkits in Python, such as Qt with PyQt, GTK with PyGTK, MFC with
  
  PyWin32, .NET with IronPython, and Swing with Jython (the Java version of Python,described in Chapter 2) or JPype. 
  
  .Web Development Framwork: Django, TurboGears, web2py, Pylons, Zope, and WebWare, support quick construction of full-featured and 
   production-quality websites with Python. 
  
  .Database Support : Sybase, Oracle, Informix, ODBC, MySQL, PostgreSQL,SQLite, and more
  
  .Python’s standard pickle module provides a simple object persistence system—it allows programs to easily save and restore entire 
   Python objects to files and file-like objects.
  
  .ZODB that providesa complete object-oriented database system for Python scripts, and others (such as SQLObject and SQLAlchemy)
  
  .SQLite embedded SQL database engineis a standard part of Python itself.
  
  .The NumPy numeric programming extension for Python mentioned earlier includes such advanced tools as an array object, interfaces 
    to standard mathematical libraries,and much more.
  
  .Python programs can easily be “glued” to components written in other languages in a variety of ways. For example, Python’s C API 
    lets C programs call and be called by Python programs flexibly
  
  .Byte code compilation , Python virtual Machine (PVM) 
  
  .Three primary implementations of the Python language—CPython, Jython, and IronPython—along with a handful of secondary
   implementations such as Stackless Python

  .The Psyco system is not another Python implementation, but rather a component that extends the byte code execution model to
   make programs run faster.
  
  .Psyco has been shown to speed Python code dramatically. According to its web page,Psyco provides “2x to 100x speed-ups, typically
   4x, with an unmodified Python interpreterand unmodified source code, just a dynamically loadable C extension module.”
  
  .“PyPy” project—an attempt to reimplement Python’s PVM in Python code, to better support optimizations like Psyco.


  .Shedskin is an emerging system that takes a different approach to Python program execution—it attempts to translate Python 
   source code to C++ code,

  .Compilation : Frozen Binaries
  
   .The Stackless Python system is a standard CPython implementation variant that does not save state on the C language call stack. This     makes Python more easy to port to small stack architectures, provides efficient multiprocessing options, and fosters novel 
    programming structures such as coroutines
    
  .The Cython system (based on work done by the Pyrex project) is a hybrid language that combines Python code with the ability to call C 
    functions and use C type declarations for variables, parameters, and class attributes
    
    
    
    
    
}
